Extraordinary (A+ ; >= 90%)
A report of extraordinary quality demonstrating strong skills in creating or applying technical or
scientific knowledge. More specifically:
Definition of the research scope and goals:
The goals are presented clearly, and the research scope is clearly defined, which indicates deep
understanding of the topic. The goals are set high but are attainable.
Command of the topic:
The cited works have been selected not only appropriately but critically; the bibliography contains
references to most important relevant papers on the subject. In addition, the student demonstrates
deep understanding of the research topic.
Methods and conclusions:
The student demonstrates command of the relevant research methods, uses appropriate and justified
methods, reports the research process and the methods accurately and precisely and justifies the
choices made. The line of reasoning behind the conclusions is particularly clear, accurate and critical
and proves that the student has gained a deep understanding of the topic. The research results
provide thorough answers to the posed research questions.
Contribution to knowledge and project report structure:
The results meet the standards of international conference publications, even though it is not
necessary that the project report contribute to new scientific knowledge. The results are of interest to
academia or industry or otherwise relevant to professionals in the field. The student has worked very
independently on the project report, while the contributions of the instructor and supervisor have been
minor.
Presentation and language:
The appearance, presentation and language of the project report are impeccable.

Excellent (A-, A ; 70-89%)
A high quality project report which meets all the basic requirements of a good project report. More
specifically:
Definition of the research scope and goals:
The goals and scope have been successfully and clearly defined in an appropriate manner.
Command of the topic:
The project report combines the cited works and empirical data consistently and clearly. The cited
works consist primarily of high-quality scientific publications, which are sufficiently numerous and
appropriately chosen. The student demonstrates good command of the research topic.
Methods and conclusions:
Appropriate methods have been used in a well-founded manner. The research process has been
described at least on a general level while the transferability of the results has been evaluated to
some extent. The empirical data has been presented well and its relevance to the results is clear. The
empirical data is sufficiently extensive to justify the conclusions drawn, and the line of reasoning
behind the conclusions is easily followed.
Contribution to knowledge and project report structure:
The results are of theoretical interest or have practical relevance, and they answer the research
questions.
Presentation and language:
The project report is a consistent written presentation of the topic and, for instance, the referencing is
correct and consistent. The project report is a coherent and balanced whole.

Very Good (B-,B,B+ ; 60-69%):
A well-structured and independently written master’s project report. The project report has all the
necessary elements, but no particular merits. The examiner’s report identifies definite needs for
improvement. More specifically:

Definition of the research scope and goals:
The goals have been somewhat clearly defined in a primarily appropriate manner. The project
hypothesis is clear.
Command of the topic:
The student demonstrates good command of the relevant literature and background material, and has
applied them appropriately, but the connection between the background material and the empirical
data is not necessarily made sufficiently explicit.
Methods and conclusions:
The methods and the experiments are adequate and justified. The methods have been chosen in
accordance with the prevailing practice; they have been used correctly and reported. However, a
critical evaluation of the methodology is not a requirement for this grade. The conclusions have been
drawn appropriately from the material.
Contribution to knowledge and project report structure:
The project report produces reliable results using the chosen methods in a suitable manner. It also
answers the posed research question or reaches the goal set for it. Contribution to knowledge is
identifiable, and the topic is at least of some interest to academia or industry. The report has mostly
progressed in accordance with the project hypothesis.
Presentation and language:
The report structure has no major weaknesses; it is well-organised and serves its purpose. The
project report uses appropriate language, and satisfactory attention has been paid to the overall
appearance of the report.

Good (C-,C,C+ ; 50-59%)
An acceptable project report with significant shortcomings in areas such as discussing the topic, the
results, scheduling, structure, language or overall appearance of the project report. The grade may
also be lowered if the student has required a disproportionate amount of supervisor or instructor
support. The project report has shortcomings in the following:
Definition of the research scope and goals:
The scope is narrow and vaguely defined, and the project report may not answer the research
questions. Both the goals and the project report proposal are vaguely defined.
Command of the topic:
The references are few or of poor scientific quality. There are notable shortcomings in the referencing.
Source evaluation is lacking and the bibliography contains errors.
Methods and conclusions:
The empirical data is scarce or there are shortcomings in its collection or analysis. Critical analysis is
scarce or non-existent. Although methodological choices have been made, methods are used
inconsistently. The conclusions drawn are few and may even contain factual errors.
Contribution to knowledge and project report structure:
The goals and results of the project report contradict each other, and the student may have difficulties
in comprehending the goal or scope of the research or in defining the research questions. The project
report may also depend excessively on the cited works, i.e. the results are not based on independent
research but rather on the references. The topic has little significance for the field of research or
industry in question or no contribution to knowledge can be clearly identified in the project report.
Presentation and language:
The project report is not a coherent, well-organised whole, its parts are out of balance or it
‘meanders’. It contains inconsistencies, unexplained conclusions or even factual errors.

Satisfactory (D-,D,D+ ; 40-49%):
A poor project report with significant shortcomings in meeting the basic requirements; however the
project report does meet the minimum requirements in terms of discussing the topic and the reporting
practices. Completing the project report has required a great deal of either instructor or supervisor

support. In spite of being advised to do so, the student has failed to correct the shortcomings. Serious
shortcomings include:
Definition of the research scope and goals:
The goals are unclear and it is evident that the student has not fully understood the purpose of the
master’s project report.
Command of the topic:
The references are too few, they are of poor scientific quality or ill-suited for the project report. There
are significant shortcomings in the command and referencing of the literature and prior research on
the topic, and the bibliography contains errors.
Methods and conclusions:
The choices of methodology and material are inappropriate or poor. The chosen method has been
applied erroneously. The empirical data is scarce or ill-suited for the purposes of the project report.
The conclusions are few and poorly founded.
Contribution to knowledge and project report structure:
The student does not demonstrate ability to conduct independent research. The project report is
excessively dependent on the references or does not explain the results. The topic is irrelevant for the
field of research or industry in question and no contribution to knowledge can be identified. The time
taken to complete the project report was disproportionate to the difficulty of the topic.
Presentation and language:
There are significant shortcomings in the structure and language of the project report; it is difficult to
read and the line of reasoning is difficult to follow. The project report shall not be passed if it has a lot
of significant shortcomings and thus fails to meet the minimum requirements for an approved master's
project report.

Unacceptable (F):
Fails to meet the above criteria

